# 3. How To Create a JSON Metadata File

While the asset is what you are selling, the blockchain that you mint your token on needs to store a "pointer" to that asset. This pointer takes the form of a JSON file with properties that relate to your NFT. Think of these properties as rows and columns in a spreadsheet. You might have a row called "Name" and in the associated column, you might have "John Doe". That is essentially what a JSON file is doing.

Let's take a look at a very basic example of some JSON specifically designed for NFT metadata:

```
{
  "description": "Description of your NFT", 
  "image": "ipfs://YOUR_ASSET_CID", 
  "name": "A name for your NFT"
}
```

The `image` property is especially important because this is the actual pointer we mentioned before. It points to your asset which is hosted on IPFS.

### Why don't we use a "normal" URL for the image property?

The format of the image value is `ipfs://` and not `https://someurl.com`. This is for good reason. Blockchain data is permanent. If you put a link to your asset in the form of some URL owned by Pinata or any other company, you run the risk of that URL not being available at some point in the future. How many sites use to exist on the web in the 90s and 2000s that no longer do?

To avoid this, we reference IPFS assets with the `ipfs://YOUR_CID` pointer. Most platforms can resolve this format, and even if they can't, it's easy to pull out the CID and load the content using a public gateway like the main IPFS gateway, for example.

### Now, how do I create a file like this?

Creating your JSON file is pretty simple. Open up the notepad app on your computer, copy the JSON example from above, and paste it into the notepad. Change the values however you need to, but make sure both the properties and the values are wrapped in double-quotes.

Save your file and give it a useful name like `asset_metadata.json`. You can call it whatever you'd like, but you need to make sure to save it with the `.json` file extension.

Now, you can upload this JSON to Pinata. When you do, you will once again get a CID. This time, the CID is for your metadata JSON which is a pointer to the file you uploaded before.
